CONTRIBUTING.md, before:

Guidelines for contributing
===========================

To report a security issue (segfault, buffer overflow, infinite loop, arbitrary
code execution etc), please send an e-mail to security@tcpdump.org, do not use
the bug tracker!

To report a non-security problem (failure to compile, failure to capture packets
properly, missing support for a network interface type or DLT), please check
first that it reproduces with the latest stable release of libpcap. If it does,
please check that the problem reproduces with the current git master branch of
libpcap. If it does (and it is not a security-related problem, otherwise see
above), please navigate to the
[bug tracker](https://github.com/the-tcpdump-group/libpcap/issues)
and check if the problem has already been reported. If it has not, please open
a new issue and provide the following details:

* libpcap version (e.g. from `tcpdump --version`, `pcap-config --version` or
  `git describe`)
* operating system name and version and any other details that may be relevant
  (`uname -a`, compiler name and version, CPU type etc.)
* `configure` or `cmake` flags if any were used
* statement of the problem
* steps to reproduce

Please note that if you know exactly how to solve the problem and the solution
would not be too intrusive, it would be best to contribute some development time
and open a pull request instead.

Still not sure how to do? Feel free to [subscribe](https://www.tcpdump.org/#mailing-lists)
to the mailing list tcpdump-workers@lists.tcpdump.org and ask!

Commit message:

Mention the filter tests in CONTRIBUTING.md. [skip ci]

CONTRIBUTING.md, after:

Guidelines for contributing
===========================

To report a security issue (segfault, buffer overflow, infinite loop, arbitrary
code execution etc), please send an e-mail to security@tcpdump.org, do not use
the bug tracker!

To report a non-security problem (failure to compile, failure to capture packets
properly, missing support for a network interface type or DLT), please check
first that it reproduces with the latest stable release of libpcap. If it does,
please check that the problem reproduces with the current git master branch of
libpcap. If it does (and it is not a security-related problem, otherwise see
above), please navigate to the
[bug tracker](https://github.com/the-tcpdump-group/libpcap/issues)
and check if the problem has already been reported. If it has not, please open
a new issue and provide the following details:

* libpcap version (e.g. from `tcpdump --version`, `pcap-config --version` or
  `git describe`)
* operating system name and version and any other details that may be relevant
  (`uname -a`, compiler name and version, CPU type etc.)
* `configure` or `cmake` flags if any were used
* statement of the problem
* steps to reproduce

Please note that if you know exactly how to solve the problem and the solution
would not be too intrusive, it would be best to contribute some development time
and open a pull request instead.

If the proposed changes concern the BPF compiler code, please try to make sure
the code is sufficiently covered with filter tests beforehand and `make check`
passes on all CI-supported platforms as a minimum (this is done automatically
for a pull request).  Then with the changes applied the tests should prove that
the resulting filter program has not changed where it is not expected to change,
and has changed in the expected ways where it is supposed to change, also that
the effect of the filter program has not (or has) changed as well.

Still not sure how to do? Feel free to [subscribe](https://www.tcpdump.org/#mailing-lists)
to the mailing list tcpdump-workers@lists.tcpdump.org and ask!
